MOLECULAR SIMULATION COURSE: EXERCISES

This distribution contains the course exercise programs. 
You need the directory 'lib' in the same directory as 
the exercises.

To compile the source, simply type

make

in the directory containing the source code. All makefiles have been
prepared for RedHat Linux 6.2 (Zoot) on an i386 using the GNU
compilers. For other Unix systems, the Makefile may have to be
modified and you may have to type "make clean" first. The random
number generator provided in this distribution was written in C
(lib/ran_uniform.c). Some care have to be taken, because some
compilers put underscores after FORTRAN77 subroutines. For example,
for SGI machines ran_uniform__ has to be changed into ran_uniform_
(see lib/ran_uniform_SGI.c). A FORTRAN77 version is also available in
the directory lib.

To run the programs, go to the Run directory and type

./run

In many of the exercises, a program has to be modified or
completed. Usually, the location of where the program has to be
modified is indicated with

C   Start Modification
C   End   Modification

The solutions of most of the programming exercises are available on
request: send an email to Berend Smit. Also, if you have any
suggestions the authors would like to hear them.

We have done our best to remove all errors from this document and the
programs. However, we have to make the following statement:

``We make no warranties that this document or the programs accompanied
by this document are free of error, or that they will meet your
requirements for any particular application. The authors disclaim all
liability for direct and consequential damages resulting from the use
of this document or the programs accompanied by this document. It is
not allowed to distribute this document and the accompanying
programs.''

Berend Smit
Department of Chemical Engineering
University of Amsterdam
Nieuwe Achtergracht 166
1018 WV Amsterdam
The Netherlands

tel   : +31 20 525 6917
fax   : +31 20 525 5604
email : bsmit@science.uva.nl
web   : http://molsim.chem.uva.nl
